Release Notes for ARMI 0.2
==========================

These are the release notes for past versions of ARMI, created before our SCR process. They are preserved here for historical record.


ARMI v0.2.9
-----------
Release Date: 2023-09-27

What's new in ARMI
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
#. Moved the ``Reactor`` assembly number from the global scope to a ``Parameter``. (`PR#1383 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1383>`_)
#. Removed the global ``Settings`` object, ``getMasterCs()``, and ``setMasterCs()``. (`PR#1399 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1399>`_)
#. Moved the Spent Fuel Pool (``sfp``) from the ``Core`` to the ``Reactor``. (`PR#1336 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1336>`_)
#. Made the ``sfp`` a child of the ``Reactor`` so it is stored in the database. (`PR#1349 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1349>`_)
#. Broad cleanup of ``Parameters``: filled in all empty units and descriptions, removed unused params. (`PR#1345 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1345>`_)
#. Updated some parameter definitions and defaults. (`PR#1355 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1355>`_)
#. Removed redundant ``Material.name`` variable. (`PR#1335 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1335>`_)
#. Added ``powerDensity`` as a high-level alternative to ``power`` to configure a ``Reactor``. (`PR#1395 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1395>`_)
#. Added SHA1 hashes of XS control files to the welcome text. (`PR#1334 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1334>`_)

Build changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^
#. Moved from ``setup.py`` to ``pyproject.toml``. (`PR#1409 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1409>`_)
#. Add python 3.11 to ARMI's CI testing GH actions. (`PR#1341 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1341>`_)
#. Put back ``avgFuelTemp`` block parameter. (`PR#1362 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1362>`_)
#. Make cylindrical component block collection less strict about pre-homogenization checks. (`PR#1347 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1347>`_)
#. Updated some parameter definitions and defaults. (`PR#1355 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1355>`_)
#. Make the SFP a child of the reactor so it is stored in database. (`PR#1349 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1349>`_)
#. Update black to version 22.6. (`PR#1396 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1396>`_)
#. Added Python 3.11 to ARMI's CI on GH actions. (`PR#1341 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1341>`_)
#. Updated ``black`` to version 22.6. (`PR#1396 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1396>`_)
#. Add a _getNucTempHelper method for CylindricalComponentsAverageBlockCollection. (`PR#1363 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1363>`_)

Bug fixes
^^^^^^^^^
#. Fixed ``_processIncludes()`` to handle ``StringIO`` input. (`PR#1333 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1333>`_)
#. Fixed logic for computing thermal expansion factors for axial expansion. (`PR#1342 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1342>`_)

ARMI v0.2.8
-----------
Release Date: 2023-06-21

What's new in ARMI
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
#. Added ``Composite.sort()`` to allow the user to recursively sort any part of the ``Reactor``. (`PR#1280 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1280>`_)
#. Switching from ``pylint`` to the ``ruff`` linter. (`PR#1296 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1296>`_)
#. Move cross section group manager Interface stack position to be just before lattice physics. (`PR#1288 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1288>`_)
#. Add ``interactCoupled`` method for ``SnapshotInterface``. (`PR#1294 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1294>`_)
#. Calculate weighted-average percent burnup of ``BlockCollections``. (`PR#1265 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1265>`_)
#. Add method ``sortAssemsByRing`` to sort ``Reactor`` assemblies by spatial location (interior first).  (`PR#1320 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1320>`_)

Bug fixes
^^^^^^^^^
#. Changed ``units.FLOAT_DIMENSION_DECIMALS`` from 10 to 8. (`PR#1183 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1183>`_)
#. Improved ``HexBlock.getWettedPerimeter()`` to include wire. (`PR#1299 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1299>`_)
#. Fixed a bug in the ISOTXS file name used for snapshots. (`PR#1277 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1277>`_)
#. Fix a bug in uniform mesh decusping when assemblies of same type have drastically different height. (`PR#1282 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1282>`_)
#. Sort ``Components`` on ``representativeBlock`` for consistency check. (`PR#1275 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1275>`_)

ARMI v0.2.7
-----------
Release Date: 2023-05-24

What's new in ARMI
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
#. The method ``Material.density3`` is now called ``density``, and the old ``density`` is now called ``pseudoDensity``. (`PR#1163 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1163>`_)
#. Removed ``metadata`` setting section, and created ``versions``. (`PR#1274 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1274>`_)
#. Use ``minimumNuclideDensity`` setting when generating macroscopic XS. (`PR#1248 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1248>`_)
#. Introduce new ``LatticePhysicsFrequency`` setting to control lattice physics calculation. (`PR#1239 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1239>`_)
#. Added new setting ``assemFlagsToSkipAxialExpansion`` to enable users to list flags of assemblies to skip axial expansion. (`PR#1235 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1235>`_)
#. Added documentation for the thermal expansion approach used in ARMI. (`PR#1204 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1204>`_)
#. Use ``TemporaryDirectoryChanger`` for ``executer.run()`` so dirs are cleaned up during run. (`PR#1219 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1219>`_)
#. New option ``copyOutput`` for globalFluxInterface to not copy output back to working directory. (`PR#1218 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1218>`_, `PR#1227 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1227>`_)
#. `Executer` class has a ``dcType`` attribute to define the type of ``DirectoryChanger`` it will use. (`PR#1228 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1228>`_)
#. Enabling one-way (upwards) axial expansion of control assemblies. (`PR#1226 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1226>`_)
#. Implement control rod decusping option for uniform mesh converter. (`PR#1229 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1229>`_)
#. ``createRepresentativeBlocksFromExistingBlocks`` now returns the mapping of original to new XS IDs. (`PR#1217 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1217>`_)
#. Added a capability to prioritize ``MpiAction`` execution and exclusivity. (`PR#1237 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1237>`_)
#. Improve support for single component axial expansion and general cleanup of axial expansion unit tests. (`PR#1230 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1230>`_)
#. New cross section group representative block type for 1D cylindrical models. (`PR#1238 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1238>`_)
#. Store the axial expansion target component name as a block parameter. (`PR#1256 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1256>`_) 
#. When using non-uniform mesh, detailed fission/activation products have cross sections generated to avoid blocks without xs data. (`PR#1257 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1257>`_)
#. Fix a bug in database comparison. (`PR#1258 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1258>`_)
#. Introduce new LatticePhysicsFrequency setting to control lattice physics calculation. (`PR#1239 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1239>`_)
#. Made sure all material classes could be resolved via name. (`PR#1270 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1270>`_)
#. Read flux directly from output into Gamma uniform mesh instead of mapping it in from block params. (`PR#1213 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1213>`_)
#. Forced GAMISO/PMATRX file path extensions to be lower case for linux support. (`PR#1216 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1216>`_)

Bug fixes
^^^^^^^^^
#. Fixed a bug in database comparison. (`PR#1258 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1258>`_)
#. Fixed an invalid assumption on the lattice physics and cross section manager interfaces when using tight coupling for snapshot runs. (`PR#1206 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1206>`_)
#. Fixed a bug where the precision used to determine the axial submesh was too small. (`PR#1225 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1225>`_)

ARMI v0.2.6
-----------
Release Date: 2023-02-09

What's new in ARMI
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
#. The ``Material`` class no longer subclasses ``Composite``. (`PR#1062 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1062>`_)
#. Froze the NumPy version to <= 1.23.5. (`PR#1035 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1035>`_) to continue to support NumPy jagged arrays in the DatabaseInterface.
#. Split 3 classes in ``database3.py`` into 3 files. (`PR#955 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/955>`_)
#. Split algorithms specific to hex assemblies out of ``FuelHandler``. (`PR#962 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/962>`_)
#. Added 4614 nuclides to decouple the loading of RIPL-3 data from the standard framework run. (`PR#998 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/998>`_)
#. Overhaul of the tight coupling routine in ARMI, and removal of ``looseCoupling`` setting. (`PR #1033 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1033>`_)
#. Added ``savePhysicsFiles`` setting to copy physics kernel I/O to directories organized by cycle and time step (e.g., c2n1). (`PR#952 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/952>`_)
#. Add ``pinQuantities`` parameter category for block params that have spatial distribution.
#. Use ``r.core.p.axialMesh`` instead of ``r.core.refAssem.getAxialMesh()`` for the uniform mesh converter. (`PR#959 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/959>`_)
#. Add group structures for 21- and 94-groups used in photon transport.
#. Add block parameter, ``fuelCladLocked``, to track whether or not the fuel and clad are locked. (`PR#1038 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1038>`_)
#. An explicit fission product modeling option was added. (`PR#1022 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1022>`_)
#. Axially expand from cold to hot before deepcopy of assemblies into reactor; improving speed. (`PR#1047 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1047>`_)
#. Add a how-to on restart calculations in the docs.
#. General improvements to efficiency in uniform mesh conversion. (`PR#1042 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1042>`_)
#. Allow MCNP material card number to be defined after the card is written. (`PR#1086 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1086>`_)
#. Refine logic for ``Block.getNumPins()`` to only count components that are actually pins. (`PR#1098 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1098>`_)
#. Improve handling of peak/max parameters by the ``UniformMeshConverter`` parameter mapper. (`PR#1108 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1108>`_)
#. Calculate block kgHM and kgFis on core loading and after shuffling. (`PR#1136 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1136>`_)
#. Calculate block ``PuFrac`` on core loading and after shuffling. (`PR#1165 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1165>`_)
#. Add setting ``cyclesSkipTightCouplingInteraction`` to skip coupling interaction on specified cycles. (`PR#1173 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1173>`_)
#. Remove unused ``HCFcoretype`` setting. (`PR#1179 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1179>`_)

Bug fixes
^^^^^^^^^
#. Fixed ``referenceBlockAxialMesh`` and ``axialMesh`` during process loading. (`PR#980 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/980>`_)
#. Fixed deadelines in MPI cases due to barriers in temp directory changers.
#. Fixed the material namespace order for ``test_axialExpansionChanger.py`` persisting after tests. (`PR#1046 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1046>`_)
#. Fixed the gaseous fission products not being removed from the core directly, but instead the fission yields within the lumped fission products were being adjusted. (`PR#1022 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1022>`_)
#. Fixed non-fuel depletable components not being initialized with all nuclides with the ``explicitFissionProducts`` model. (`PR#1067 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1067>`_)
#. Fixed consistency between cross section group manager and lattice physics interface for tight coupling. (`PR#1118 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1118>`_)
#. Fixed numerical diffusion in uniform mesh converter that affects number densities and cumulative parameters like DPA. (`PR#992 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/992>`_)
#. Fix the formula to calculate ``b.p.puFrac``. (`PR#1168 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1168>`_)
#. Fixed ``Material.densityTimesHeatCapacity()``, moving from pseudo-density to physical density. (`PR#1129 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1129>`_)
#. Fixed ``TD_frac`` modification on UraniumOxide and MOX was not being applied correctly.
#. Fixed Magnessium density curve. (`PR#1126 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1126>`_)
#. Fixed Potassium density curve. (`PR#1128 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1128>`_)
#. Fixed Concrete density curve. (`PR#1131 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1131>`_)
#. Fixed Copper density curve. (`PR#1150 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1150>`_)
#. Fixed ``Component.density``. (`PR#1149 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1149>`_)
#. Fixed error where a non-float value could be assigned to a material's mass fraction dictionary. (`PR#1199 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1199>`_)
#. Fixed interface/event ``runLog.header`` for tight coupling. (`PR#1178 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1178>`_)
#. Fixed circular import bug in ``reactors.py`` caused by importing settings constants. (`PR#1185 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1185>`_)

ARMI v0.2.5
-----------
Release Date: 2022-10-24

What's new in ARMI
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
#. Cleanup of stale ``coveragerc`` file. (`PR#923 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/923>`_)
#. Added `medium` writer style option to ``SettingsWriter``. Added it as arg to modify CLI. (`PR#924 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/924>`_), and to clone CLI (`PR#932 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/932>`_).
#. Update the EntryPoint class to provide user feedback on required positional arguments. (`PR#922 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/922>`_)
#. Overhaul ``reactor.zones`` tooling and remove application-specific zoning logic. (`PR#943 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/943>`_)

Bug fixes
^^^^^^^^^
#. Adjusted ``density3`` in ``armi/materials/b4C.py`` to include the theoretical density. (`PR#942 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/942>`_)
#. Fixed bug in ``fastFlux`` block parameter mapping in the ``UniformMeshConverter`` by applying it to the ``detailedAxialExpansion`` category.
#. Fixed issue where shuffles might duplicate in restart runs.


ARMI v0.2.4
-----------
Release Date: 2022-10-03

What's new in ARMI
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
#. Added new ``UserPlugin`` functionality.
#. Introduced ``axial expansion changer``.
#. Greatly improved the ``UniformMeshGeometryConverter``.
#. Made the min/max temperatures of ``Material`` curves discoverable.
#. Removed the ``PyYaml`` dependency.
#. Changed the default Git branch name to ``main``.
#. Moved math utilities into their own module.
#. Moved ``newReports`` into their final location in ``armi/bookkeeping/report/``.
#. Removed ``_swapFluxParam`` method. (`PR#665 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/665#discussion_r893348409>`__)
#. Removed the last usage of ``settingsRules``; now only use ``settingsValidation``.
#. Removed separate blueprints in snapshot runs, they must come from the database. (`PR#872 https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/872`)
#. Added reporting of neutron and gamma energy groups in the XS library ``__repr__``.
#. Updated NHFLUX reader to store VARIANT data that was being discarded.
#. Store thermally expanded block heights at BOL in ``armi/reactor/reactors.py::Core::processLoading``.
#. Added neutronics settings: ``inners`` and ``outers`` for downstream support.
#. Removed unused Thermal Hydraulics settings.
#. Replaced setting ``stationaryBlocks`` with ``stationaryBlockFlags`` setting. (`PR#665 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/665>`__))
#. Changed the default value of the ``trackAssems`` setting to ``False``.
#. Add setting ``inputHeightsConsideredHot`` to enable thermal expansion of assemblies at BOL.


Bug fixes
^^^^^^^^^
#. Fixed issues finding ``ISOXX`` files cross-platform.
#. Fixed issues in ``growToFullCore``.
#. Fixed issue in the ARMI memory profiler.
#. Fixed issue in linear expansion in ``Alloy200``.
#. Fixed issue in ``armi/reactor/components/complexShapes.py::Helix::getCircleInnerDiameter``
#. Fixed issue with axial expansion changer in ``armi/reactor/reactors.py::Core::processLoading``.
#. Fixed issue in how number densities are initialized for components.
#. Fixed issue in ``armi/cases/case.py::copyInterfaceInputs``
#. Fixed issue in ``armi/reactor/components/component.py::getReac``
#. Fixed issue in ``armi/reactor/converters/uniformMesh.py`` was clearing out unchanged param data.
#. Fixed issue where components were different if initialized through blueprints vs init.
#. Fixed issue where component mass was conserved in axial expansion instead of density. (`PR#846 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/846>`_)
#. Fixed issue in ``HexBlock::rotatePins`` failed to modify ``pinLocation`` param. (`#855 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/855>`_)
#. Fixed issue in ``Core::_applyThermalExpansion`` failed to call ``block.completeInitiaLoading``. (`#885 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/885>`_)
#. Fixed issue where a validator would complain both simple and detailed cycles settings were used.
#. Fixed issue where ``getReactionRates()`` was not accounting for burnup-dependent cross-sections.


ARMI v0.2.3
-----------
Release Date: 2022-02-08

What's new in ARMI
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
#. Upgrading the version of NumPy for a security alert. (`PR#530 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/530>`_)
#. Upgraded ThoriumOxide material. (`PR#548 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/548>`_)
#. Upgraded Lithium material. (`PR#546 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/546>`_)
#. Improved ``Helix`` class. (`PR#558 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/558>`_)

Bug fixes
^^^^^^^^-
#. Fixed issue where UML diagrams weren't being generated in docs. (`#550 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/issues/550>`_)
#. Fixed issue with Inconel Alloy 617. (`PR#557 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/557>`_)


ARMI v0.2.2
-----------
Release Date: 2022-01-19

What's new in ARMI v0.2.2
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^-
#. Improved type hinting.
#. Flushed out the ability to build the docs as PDF.
#. Material modifications can now be made per-component.
#. The ``loadOperator`` method now has the optional ``allowMissing`` argument.

Bug fixes
^^^^^^^^^
#. Fixed issue where copying a ``Setting`` with a defined list of options would throw an error. (`PR#540 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/540>`_)


ARMI v0.2.1
-----------
Release Date: 2022-01-13

What's new in ARMI v0.2.1
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
#. Added new reference data for lumped fission products. (`#507 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/issues/507>`_)

Bug fixes
^^^^^^^^^
#. Fixed issue where grid GUI was not saving lattice maps. (`#490 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/issues/490>`_)
#. Fixed issue where SettingsModifier was using old Settings API. (`#500 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/issues/500>`_)
#. Fixed issue where copying a Setting only copied the default value. (`PR#534 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/534>`_)


ARMI v0.2.0
-----------
Release Date: 2021-11-19

The API has started to solidify, and the number of external-facing changes have started to slow down. This release is a stake in the ground on a stable API.

What's new in ARMI v0.2.0
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
#. Made user settings immutable to avoid confusing runtime behavior.
#. Removed the concept of 'facemaps' (now replaced with more general grids).
#. Added ability to use module-level logging for more precise debugging.
#. Added ability to write full tips-up hex asciimaps.
#. Fixed ability to serialize grid blueprints.
#. Improved code coverage and linting.
#. Added a latin hypercube suite builder for parameter sweeps.
#. Added several clarifications, fixes, and updates to documentation.
#. Updated units labels on several parameters.
#. Added protections against deleting directories.
#. Updated spontaneous fission data.
#. Removed confusing Charge Fuel Pool from core.
#. Sped up YAML reading.
#. Removed localization module.
#. Added ANL116 energy group structure.
#. Added setting to control auto-creation of within-block grids.
#. Added new plot/summarizing capabilities.
#. Added ability for GUI to save map as image.
#. Added C5G7 compositions and dimensions to LWR tutorial.
#. Added 1d/2d mesh reading/writing to GEODST.

Backwards incompatible changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
There may be some new errors based on updated input checking.


Bug fixes
^^^^^^^^^
#. Fixed centering of full-symmetry Cartesian lattice maps.
#. Fixed issues with grids that had multi-index locations.
#. Removed test files from coverage check.
#. Fixed order of operations issue in ``rotatePins``.
#. Fixed incorrect multiplicity for non-grid block components.
#. Many additional bugfixes and cleanups (see PR list).
