SCR for ARMI 0.6.0
==================

This is a listing of all the Software Change Request (SCR) changes in the ARMI repository, as part of release number 0.6.0.

Please note that the Software Test Report (STR) documents for all of the changes listed below will be updated as part of this release. This is a necessary part of every ARMI release, that the STRs are all updated.

Below, this SCR is organized into the individual changes that comprise the net SCR for this release.


Code Changes, Features
----------------------

The following software changes added new features, or made a meaningful to change to an existing one.


.. exec::
    from automateScr import buildScrTable

    return buildScrTable("0.6.yaml", "features")


Code Changes, Bugs and Fixes
----------------------------

The following software changes related to bugs or other fixes.


.. exec::
    from automateScr import buildScrTable

    return buildScrTable("0.6.yaml", "fixes")


Code Changes, Maintenance, or Trivial
-------------------------------------

This selection collects more trivial software changes. Such a change might fall into a usual "maintenance" bin. It is probably part of the continuous and on-going technical debt efforts. But the change might be as minor as linting.


.. exec::
    from automateScr import buildScrTable

    return buildScrTable("0.6.yaml", "trivial")


Documentation-Only Changes
--------------------------

The following changes below are changes to the SRSD, SDID, STR, or other SQA documentation.


.. exec::
    from automateScr import buildScrTable

    return buildScrTable("0.6.yaml", "docs")
