***********************
ARMI v0.3 Release Notes
***********************

ARMI v0.3.1
===========
Release Date: TBD

New Features
------------
#. TBD

API Changes
-----------
#. Renaming ``structuredgrid.py`` to camelCase. (`PR#1650 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1650>`_)
#. Removing unused argument from ``Block.coords()``. (`PR#1651 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1651>`_)
#. Removing unused method ``HexGrid.allPositionsInThird()``. (`PR#1655 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1655>`_)
#. Removed unused methods: ``Reactor.getAllNuclidesIn()``, ``plotTriangleFlux()``. (`PR#1656 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1656>`_)
#. Removed ``armi.utils.dochelpers``; not relevant to nuclear modeling. (`PR#1662 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1662>`_)
#. Removing old tools created to help people convert to the current database format: ``armi.bookkeeping.db.convertDatabase()`` and ``ConvertDB``. (`PR#1658 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1658>`_)
#. TBD

Bug Fixes
---------
#. TBD

Changes that Affect Requirements
--------------------------------
#. Very minor change to ``Block.coords()``, removing unused argument. (`PR#1651 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1651>`_)
#. TBD


ARMI v0.3.0
===========
Release Date: 2024-01-26

What's new in ARMI?
-------------------
#. The ``_copyInputsHelper()`` gives relative path and not absolute after copy. (`PR#1416 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1416>`_)
#. Attempt to set representative block number densities by component if possible. (`PR#1412 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1412>`_)
#. Use ``functools`` to preserve function attributes when wrapping with ``codeTiming.timed`` (`PR#1466 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1466>`_)
#. Remove a number of deprecated block, assembly, and core parameters related to a defunct internal plugin.

Bug Fixes
---------
#. ``StructuredGrid.getNeighboringCellIndices()`` was incorrectly implemented for the second neighbor. (`PR#1614 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1614>`_)

Quality Work
------------
#. ARMI now mandates ``ruff`` linting. (`PR#1419 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1419>`_)
#. Many new references to requirement tests and implementations were added to docstrings.
#. Removed all old ARMI requirements, to start the work fresh. (`PR#1438 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1438>`_)
#. Downgrading Draft PRs as policy. (`PR#1444 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1444>`_)
