***********************
ARMI v0.4 Release Notes
***********************

ARMI v0.4.1
===========
Release Date: TBD

New Features
------------
#. Adding data models for ex-core structures in ARMI. (`PR#1891 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1891>`_)
#. ARMI now supports Python 3.12. (`PR#1813 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1813>`_)
#. Removing the ``tabulate`` dependency by ingesting it to ``armi.utils.tabulate``. (`PR#1811 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1811>`_)
#. Adding ``--skip-inspection`` flag to ``CompareCases`` CLI. (`PR#1842 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1842>`_)
#. Allow merging a component with zero area into another component (`PR#1858 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1858>`_)
#. Use ``Block.getNumPins()`` in ``HexBlock._rotatePins()``. (`PR#1859 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1859>`_)
#. Provide utilities for determining location of a rotated object in a hexagonal lattice (``getIndexOfRotatedCell``). (`PR#1846 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/1846`)
#. Allow merging a component with zero area into another component. (`PR#1858 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1858>`_)
#. Provide ``Parameter.hasCategory`` for quickly checking if a parameter is defined with a given category. (`PR#1899 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1899>`_)
#. Provide ``ParameterCollection.where`` for efficient iteration over parameters who's definition matches a given condition. (`PR#1899 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1899>`_)
#. Plugins can provide the ``getAxialExpansionChanger`` hook to customize axial expansion. (`PR#1870 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1870`_)
#. TBD

API Changes
-----------
#. Removing flags ``CORE`` and ``REACTOR``. (`PR#1835 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1835>`_)
#. Alphabetizing ``Flags.toString()`` results. (`PR#1912 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1912>`_)
#. Moving ``settingsValidation`` from ``operators`` to ``settings``. (`PR#1895 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1895>`_)
#. Removing deprecated method ``prepSearch``. (`PR#1845 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1845>`_)
#. Removing unused function ``SkippingXsGen_BuChangedLessThanTolerance``. (`PR#1845 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1845>`_)
#. Allowing for unknown Flags when opening a DB. (`PR#1844 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1835>`_)
#. Removing ``assemblyLists.py`` and the ``AssemblyList`` class. (`PR#1891 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1891>`_)
#. Removing ``Assembly.rotatePins`` and ``Block.rotatePins``. Prefer ``Assembly.rotate`` and ``Block.rotate``. (`PR#1846 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/1846`_)
#. TBD

Bug Fixes
---------
#. Fixed ``DerivedShape.getArea`` for ``cold=True``. (`PR#1831 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1831>`_)
#. Fixed error parsing command line integers in ``ReportsEntryPoint``. (`PR#1824 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1824>`_)
#. Fixed ``PermissionError`` when using ``syncDbAfterWrite``. (`PR#1857 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1857>`_)
#. Fixed ``MpiDirectoryChanger``. (`PR#1853 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1853>`_)
#. Changed data type of ``thKernel`` setting from ``bool`` to ``str`` in ``ThermalHydraulicsPlugin``. (`PR#1855 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1855>`_)
#. Update height of fluid components after axial expansion. (`PR#1828 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1828>`_)
#. Rotate hexagonal assembly patches correctly on facemap plots. (`PR#1883 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1883>`_)
#. Material theoretical density is serialized to and read from database. (`PR#1852 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1852>`_)
#. Removed broken and unused column in ``summarizeMaterialData``. (`PR#1925 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1925>`_)
#. Fixed edge case in ``assemblyBlueprint._checkParamConsistency()``. (`PR#1928 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1928>`_)
#. TBD

Quality Work
------------
#. Removing deprecated code ``axialUnitGrid``. (`PR#1809 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1809>`_)
#. Refactoring ``axialExpansionChanger``. (`PR#1861 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1861>`_)
#. Raise a ValueError when database load fails. (`PR#1940 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1940>`_)
#. TBD

Changes that Affect Requirements
--------------------------------
#. TBD


ARMI v0.4.0
===========
Release Date: 2024-07-29

New Features
------------
#. Conserve mass by component in ``assembly.setBlockMesh()``. (`PR#1665 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1665>`_)
#. Removal of the ``Block.reactor`` property. (`PR#1425 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1425>`_)
#. System information is now also logged on Linux. (`PR#1689 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1689>`_)
#. Reset ``Reactor`` data on worker processors after every interaction to free memory from state distribution.
   (`PR#1729 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1729>`_ and `PR#1750 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1750>`_)
#. Density can be specified for components via ``custom isotopics`` in the blueprints. (`PR#1745 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1745>`_)
#. Implement a new ``JaggedArray`` class that handles HDF5 interface for jagged data. (`PR#1726 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1726>`_)

API Changes
-----------
#. Replacing the concrete material with a better reference. (`PR#1717 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1717>`_)
#. Adding more detailed time information to logging. (`PR#1796 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1796>`_)
#. Renaming ``structuredgrid.py`` to camelCase. (`PR#1650 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1650>`_)
#. Removing unused argument from ``Block.coords()``. (`PR#1651 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1651>`_)
#. Removing unused method ``HexGrid.allPositionsInThird()``. (`PR#1655 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1655>`_)
#. Removed unused methods: ``Reactor.getAllNuclidesIn()``, ``plotTriangleFlux()``. (`PR#1656 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1656>`_)
#. Removed ``armi.utils.dochelpers``; not relevant to nuclear modeling. (`PR#1662 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1662>`_)
#. Removing old tools created to help people convert to the current database format: ``armi.bookkeeping.db.convertDatabase()`` and ``ConvertDB``. (`PR#1658 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1658>`_)
#. Removing the unused method ``Case.buildCommand()``. (`PR#1773 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1773>`_)
#. Removed the variable ``armi.physics.neutronics.isotopicDepletion.ORDER``. (`PR#1671 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1671>`_)
#. Removing extraneous ``ArmiOjbect`` methods. (`PR#1667 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1667>`_)
    * Moving ``ArmiObject.getBoronMassEnrich()`` to ``Block``.
    * Moving ``ArmiObject.getPuMoles()`` to ``Block``.
    * Moving ``ArmiObject.getUraniumMassEnrich()`` to ``Block``.
    * Removing ``ArmiObject.getMaxUraniumMassEnrich.()``.
    * Removing ``ArmiObject.getMaxVolume()`` & ``Block.getMaxVolume()``.
    * Removing ``ArmiObject.getPuFrac()``.
    * Removing ``ArmiObject.getPuMass()``.
    * Removing ``ArmiObject.getPuN()``.
    * Removing ``ArmiObject.getZrFrac()``.
    * Removing ``ArmiObject.printDensities()``.
    * Moving ``Composite.isOnWhichSymmetryLine()`` to ``Assembly``.
    * Removing ``Block.isOnWhichSymmetryLine()``.
#. Removing the ``Block.reactor`` property. (`PR#1425 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1425>`_)
#. Moving several ``ArmiObject`` methods. (`PR#1425 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1425>`_)
    * Moving ``ArmiObject.getNeutronEnergyDepositionConstants`` to ``Block``.
    * Moving ``ArmiObject.getGammaEnergyDepositionConstants`` to ``Block``.
    * Moving ``ArmiObject.getTotalEnergyGenerationConstants`` to ``Block``.
    * Moving ``ArmiObject.getFissionEnergyGenerationConstants`` to ``Block``.
    * Moving ``ArmiObject.getCaptureEnergyGenerationConstants`` to ``Block``.
#. Removing the parameter ``rdIterNum``. (`PR#1704 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1704>`_)
#. Removing the parameters ``outsideFuelRing`` and ``outsideFuelRingFluxFr``. (`PR#1700 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1700>`_)
#. Removing the setting ``doOrificedTH``. (`PR#1706 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1706>`_)
#. Changing the Doppler constant params to ``VOLUME_INTEGRATED``. (`PR#1659 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1659>`_)
#. Change ``Operator._expandCycleAndTimeNodeArgs`` to be a non-static method. (`PR#1766 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1766>`_)
#. Database now writes state at the last time node of a cycle rather than during the ``DatabaseInterface.interactEOC`` interaction. (`PR#1090 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1090>`_)

Bug Fixes
---------
#. Fixed four bugs with "corners up" hex grids. (`PR#1649 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1649>`_)
#. Fixed ``safeCopy`` to work on both Windows and Linux with strict permissions (`PR#1691 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1691>`_)
#. When creating a new XS group, inherit settings from initial group. (`PR#1653 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1653>`_, `PR#1751 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1751>`_)
#. Fixed a bug with ``Core.getReactionRates``. (`PR#1771 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1771>`_)
#. Fixed a bug with interactive versus batch mode checking on windows versus linux. (`PR#1786 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1786>`_)

Quality Work
------------
#. Creating a single-block test reactor, to speed up unit tests. (`PR#1737 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1737>`_)
#. Supporting MacOS in CI. (`PR#1713 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1713>`_)
#. We now enforce a maximum line length of 120 characters, using ``ruff``. (`PR#1646 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1646>`_)
#. Updating ``ruff`` to version ``0.5.1``. (`PR#1770 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1770>`_)
#. Move ``.coveragerc`` file information into ``pyproject.toml``. (`PR#1692 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1692>`_)

Changes that Affect Requirements
--------------------------------
#. Very minor change to ``Block.coords()``, removing unused argument. (`PR#1651 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1651>`_)
#. Touched ``HexGrid`` by adding a "cornersUp" property and fixing two bugs. (`PR#1649 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1649>`_)
#. Very slightly modified the implementation of ``Assembly.add()``. (`PR#1670 <https://github.com/terrapower/armi/pull/1670>`_)
